Also, you can go to this page.
And put your comments.
Also you can go to this link I think,
and then you can put your I mean your.
I idea that you want to extend the
time or the two hours is enough.
So based on this post
I'm going to adjust the.
Timing for the final exam,
whether I'm in two or three hours.
This is one thing that I thought
I have to bring to your attention.
OK, yeah.
Any questions? Make sense or?
I make an announcement about these things.
I mean at the. Beginning of next week
so everybody can know about that.
Uh. The time has not been a set yet.
So basically like mid term is
going to be about two or three hours.
But The thing is that as I
said in the discussion board,
one of this man says that the
time was not long enough.
So you can put your comment
about the length of the.
Exam based on your experience in the meter.
So you think that the mid
term length was short or long?
So based on that experience you
can put your comment on that post.
So then I can decide that.
What would be the best?
I mean lamb for the exam, yeah?
So.
So before we start, I mean, uh.
Oh oh, what's your idea about the left?
I mean, which I mean, how long?
What was your experience on the meter?
It was short or it was enough for your exam.
You can put your comments in the chat box.
OK, Phillip says I used up most of
the time so I cut it extremely close,
but maybe that was just me.
OK, how about others?
Also, Cameron Christopher
Christopher is already here.
How was your experience?
Yes, yeah, I figured that that yeah.
It was close for me as well.
It was close. So you mean
when you say it was close?
It means that I mean the two hours
was just the right timing, yes?
that it's OK.
OK, so. Nice, I mean including the
time that you had to, for instance,
honestly need to scan or take a
photo of the papers and then upload,
make them PDF and then upload the
images including all these stuff.
OK, so now I have an idea that
I mean how to adjust the time
so maybe I extend the timing.
With another half an hour.
So then you have enough time to.
Prepare the final PDF file
because you have to do it.
I mean take an image and etc.
Yeah, scanning or submitting yes, correct?
Yeah, I will do that.
So also you can put the comment
on the discussion board.
So yeah.
OK, no problem, but the timing is at
7:00 PM so if imagine we have I mean
three hour exam or three AM 4 hour exam.
It becomes 7:00 PM up until 10 or 11 PM.
So be careful about that.
Yes, that's that's a better.
I mean, that's another thing.
So less questions in the exams, yeah?
But The thing is that as we see
today and also next lecture,
I mean the next few lectures
are going to include kind of.
More complicated topics so.
And unfortunately,
we cannot ask you to do the assignment
for the last week and also a week
before last week as a result of
you have to practice yourself.
Although we have the office
hour to practice on that so,
but we cannot ask for doing
doing assignments or labs.
As a result,
you have to practice a lot these
topics that we are going to cover
in the next few weeks, yeah?
Oh no, the time for the exam is already
set by the Department, so I cannot
change that so it is start at 7:00 PM.
Tatiana says a 6:30, so let's start so.
Yeah for sure for sure in in
that folder that I showed you I
put a sample questions or other.
I mean solved question from
the previous semester and etc.
Yes very similar to the midterm.
I create that folder lecture Week
15 final exam. In that folder I
put all the sample exams and etc.
So let's start up so a quick
recap on what we covered so far.
We could build a.
A sequential logic or basically a
combination logic with feedbacks
that is able to store only one bit,
either zero or one the main.
The main memory unit we could build
was based on Rs. Reset or set.
Memory unit and we said that we
can add a enable input as a gate or
as a latch and as long as the gate
or the latch is one or is open,
the internal state of the memory
unit gonna be affected by the input.
However, if enable input is zero,
it doesn't look at the input
and it stores whatever it had.
So the the first memory unit was
Rs and because it has a gate,
we call it Rs latch and this was
the characteristic table which shows
the behavior of the memory on it.
00 stores 01 reset 10 set,
meaning that it makes it one and one
one is not forbidden and the right
side you can see the state transition
diagram which shows the life cycle
of the memories. Memory unit.
And he said that as long as he.
Usually the signal for E is like I
mean regular pulses of zero and ones,
and we've called each period of zero and one.
The pulse and the number of pulses
within a second is called Hertz
and we said that the more pulses
we can generate within a second,
the more speed we have in another way,
the more speed which we have in
order to open or close the door
of the memory units in a system.
And we said that in a.
Positive logic,
usually the enabl gonna be one.
So as long as the pulse is 1,
the latch actually is open and we
look at the input of the memory unit.
Here are an example
In negative logic, as long as Y0
the gate is open so it works as a
complement of the positive logic.
The next memory unit we built was
the D latch, which basically the D
latch is an extension to the Rs latch,
but it tries to avoid the forbidden
action 11. So basically RMS is
always complemented each other and.
The final unit works like this as
long as the input is 00, goes inside.
So reset.
As long as the input for the D is 1,
the inside becomes once or set,
so there is no store action here or
there is no forbidden action here either.
Whatever in the input goes inside.
If the input is codes inside and this is
the best memory unit to a store in formation.
Whenever we want to transfer
or store information,
we usually use the D latch.
And this is the.
Life cycle off the D latch.
The next we built was that E latch
that E latch was basically has.
So main actions either restore or
compliment so that the light is
best for whenever we need to do
not bitwise not on the information,
which is very good for the one's complement,
or applying the twos compliment
based on the one's complement.
So so basically if the Enable
is 1 and the input is zero,
it is stores, so whatever it inside.
Gonna be the same however, if.
Enable is 1 and input is the T in put is 1,
it complements.
So the next step is gonna be the
compliment of the previous state.
And here is the lifecycle or
a state transition diagram.
And the most calm complete. Latch was
the JK proposed by the Jack Kilby.
And basically it has the store action.
A reset action,
set action and complement action.
And basically there is no
forbidden action here.
Usually when we want to.
Uh, stored information in general.
For general purpose we use J
K flop because it enables
us to do any action on that set,
reset or compliment or a store.
And The thing is that remember
that this is very important.
Because he proposed this latch,
we change the input names,
so K represents R or reset,
J represents sets or S,
so be careful about this namings,
because this tables are
standard all over the world.
Yes, Nick, yes basically if you if
they enable is 1 and the K&J is both 0
whatever it already had in the stores
that it repeats that. Correctly.
The one one is like a one
shot condition, right?
Oh, The thing is that for the
RS11 actually is forbidden.
So if you put the R1 S one in the.
Or as large it brings the established
rule don't care condition,
but for the J ka it complements.
So basically let's see.
Let's for instance we have the previous.
The current state is one for the Jacob.
And the enable input is 1 if
you input one one in the J card,
the next step gonna be.
0.
For the Jackal. However, for the Rs
it goes to the don't care condition.
It means that it won't
have to look at the state.
And whenever we say that the
in the internal state is 1,
it means that the main output
of the latch is that bit.
So when I say that now
the current state is 1,
it means that the output the
main output of the latch is 1.
For the Jacob 11 compliment
so it brings one to zero,
meaning that the main output of the.
Jacob becomes 0.
And always the second output
is the nut of the main output,
so that's why we put this,
not here.
Whatever we consider the main output
as the state of the large and the
other output as the nut of the state.
So make sense code. And Nick.
OK. Now we want to make it more
precise and we want to make a kind of.
A better, better memory unit
that works with the latch.
So we call it flip flops so I can
promise you that if we this is the
last step in order to make the best
memory unit and after this we can
go and build our computer system.
So so far we had Rs memory unit
and we said that the problem was
the Rs was that whenever the input
changes the Rs state changes.
After that we put a large or a gate to
the memory unit in order to avoid the
fact that whenever the input changes,
the state changes.
So we by adding the gates we said
that as long as the gate is open,
we accept the change.
As long as the gate is closed.
We do not look at the input
and we're still whatever,
but The thing is that in
higher speed systems.
If you have a pulse of like this.
And you say that why have a gate or
enable input for my memory in it?
So I have latches, and as long as the.
Input is one.
I accept the input and I change my internal
state based on the value of the inputs.
I would say that even this amount
of opening the door is huge time.
So imagine that, for instance,
this time is about,
for instance, one millisecond.
Even more,
one millisecond is a huge time
for such system that works with
the higher speed clocks.
An within this one millisecond
time the input can can change.
And you cannot say that I cannot
accept multiple changes to the
input because the door is open as
and the inputs can change within
this time and as a result it
can change the internal state.
So let's have a look at that as an example.
So you already saw this time and
we call it time timing diagram.
So basically here we have a
large why we had a flash because
we haven't enabled input.
And because it works on the positive edge,
so as long as the Enable is one,
we look at the inputs.
And change the internal state of the latch.
So. For instance, for during this time.
Enable is 0 so we don't look at
the R&S whatever or an S is.
We don't care,
we just keep the initial state,
which is usually 0.
But enabled becomes one an.
Now we can look at the R&S organelles within.
This time is or is 0.
S is 1, so it's stats.
So it brings the zero state to one,
meaning that the main output is now 1.
And then he drops to zero.
It means that it closes the door.
So as a result we don't look at the input.
Whatever value of the input is, we don't
look at them and we keep whatever we had.
We had one.
We continue having one.
But at this time the Enable becomes one,
meaning that we open the door.
But as you look at the changes to the Rs.
Up until half in time or is 0.
An S is 0, which is a story,
so it is stored whatever it had,
so it had one.
So it is still stores one.
However, suddenly in the middle of
the Enable is one or goes to one.
Which means that a reset so
S is 0 or becomes one reset
and then one drops to 0.
So you see, the problem of the latch
latch is not fast enough to just look
at the input and changes the result.
It is open as long as the enable input is 1.
And it gives the opportunity for input or an
S to change multiple times and as a result,
your internal is that going
to change multiple times.
So, and this is not desired,
usually we want to change the internal
set at one time and we want to keep
it up until the next enabled input.
So the way this large works
is called working by level,
meaning that it works with the
level of one for the enabled input.
So the question is,
is it possible to build a memory unit
that only look at the input at the moment,
not at the during the period
of time that E is 1.
So instead of just having a time span,
we want to have just a quick moment of that.
So here is the problem of the latch.
So the latch is when they become
open they're open for a time period.
We want to make it a moment.
I mean, if I want to,
I mean intuitively expand that it's kind of
instead of having a door having a people.
So basically we don't want to open the
door because it takes a lot of time
to open the door and close the door,
and within this time there might be multiple.
I mean animals or multiple
things going inside your house.
So you just want to see what what
are the changes behind the door.
And that's enough for you to
change the internal state.
So instead of just having the time span for
letting the latch open or the door open,
you just want to make it a moment.
So if you do that,
imagine we can build such a memory in it.
That behavior changes like this.
So.
The moments we choose is just
the change for the enabling put
between zero and one and 120.
So we just look at the input at the
moment that the Enable changes,
not the Enable becomes 0 or
the Enable becomes one.
The change because the changes and very
quick moment and if we look at if we
just look at the input at that very moment,
it becomes very.
I mean, uh.
Short time and as have a more
stability for the internal state of the land,
the memory appeared.
So the idea is this,
instead of looking at the inputs during
the time that the Enable is one,
we look at the inputs at the
edges of the calls at this moment.
So at this moment we just look at
what is the value of R and what is
the value of S and then based on that
we change the internal state and we
keep that change up until the next edge.
With indeed two edges.
Although the latch is open,
but we don't want to look at the inputs,
we want to include this
stability up until the next edge.
So you see that.
How the inputs can change internal state
within a very short amount of time?
Very moment just in a moment.
So for this diagram,
if you want to work like that.
So basically we start from the 0.
And then up until the first edge.
Which is here.
In this moment we just look at what is the R?
What is the S?
S is one or it is 0,
so we change to one and then we.
We don't look at the input anymore.
We go straight toward the next edge.
The next edge is here.
And now we look at the input.
Just a quick look at the input
or is 0 S is 1,
so we do set so one becomes one
and then we go to the next edge
which is this match.
And then at this edge or is zero
as is 0 which is store.
So we had one we store 1.
Up until the next edge,
so the next edge is here,
so any change between the two
edges doesn't matter for us
because we just look at the edges
for the input within the edges.
We don't care about the change into input,
so we go to the next edge and then the
next edge or becomes 1S becomes zero,
and then we drop too.
Because this is a reset action.
So we dropped to 0.
So you you see the difference?
Here, if you have a memory
unit that works with the edges.
Maybe between two edges?
Any change to Ordinace doesn't have
any influence on the internal state.
That asked are.
What is happen if S is 1 and R is 1 in
change moment or they are changing change?
Time and so imagine.
So that's a good question.
For instance, imagine we have this false.
For instance, both becomes one at this edge.
For instance at this edge.
Der. Comes here and then drops.
Imagine we have this post for
R and we have this post for S.
At the very extreme moment at the moment
that we looked at the input, we see.
What happens to the state of the memory unit?
So at this edge we look at the value
of or we look at the value of us.
The value of R is.
At this age we can consider
this very quick moment one,
and at this time for the S we can consider 0.
SO10 reset so it goes to.
0.
If both becomes one. So at this time.
Both are one. And then. Again,
at this time at and also as at this time,
some sometimes before that becomes one.
So what is going to be the next state?
At this moment both are 111
goes to don't care condition,
so the whole state of the memory in it
goes to don't care condition up until
the next edge up until the next edge.
If within two edges anything
changed too often, as it doesn't
matter because we did our look and
now we are done with the change.
Oh yes. One thing is that because we
consider any edges in the enable input
or in the Clock we call this dual edge.
Either from zero to one or
120 for the enable input.
We call this dual edge.
So the difference between
these two mechanism is this.
The latches works based on the level.
And for the positive logic,
as long as the level is one,
they accept the change.
But for the edges,
they look at the changes between
zero and one for the Clock.
And within that very moment,
it looks at it input and then that's it.
So you don't have more
time to change your input.
You have to prepare your changes for
the input at that moment for the edges.
So that's the difference between
memory unit that works with the level
which we call them gated memory units,
or gated latches.
For instance,
for the Rs with colligative Rs or Rs latch,
but for the edges.
We have a new name for them and
I'll explain what is the name.
So we basically say that the memory
unit or S workspace on the edges.
So let's practice,
maybe this answers your question.
Imagine we have a memory unit
about Workspace on the two edges.
From zero to one or 120 on the on the pulse.
So initially you said that you
can consider the initial state
of the memory Unit 0.
We see the first edge by edge.
We mean that the transition for
the zero to one for the Clock or
from one to zero for the Clock.
So we see the first edge.
At this moment we just at the moment
look at the ordinace or an S or is 0 here.
As is 1.
So this is the set it brings.
This status of the internal status
of this memory unit was one,
so it goes to one and it keeps
one up until the next edge.
Here.
Whatever changes to or an S within this time.
No matter, we don't look at it
because we already looked at it and
we change the status up until the next.
But this moment is very important.
Why? Because we need.
We reach another edge.
And at this ad we have to look at the input.
So Ordinace must be prepared at this moment.
So R is 0.
S is.
One which is set.
So we set the previous state,
which was one set on top of one is 1,
so we keep one up until the next edge.
Now, up until this edge.
Any change to Ordinace doesn't.
You can see this change.
Doesn't matter for us,
this change doesn't matter for us because
at this at the edge is important.
So and now, at this age we
can see that the R is 1,
as is 0, so it resets.
So we had one.
It drops to zero up until the next edge.
As you can see here,
this change doesn't have any
impact because we don't care
this change within two edges.
And now in the next edge,
we look at the aranas.
And or is 1 S is 1,
so it brings the status of the
memory unit to don't care condition.
So it goes to. Don't care condition
up until the next edge here.
Again, always want as his one.
So we continue with the don't care
condition up until the next edge.
At this age, is still or is 1 as his one.
You continue up until the
next edge as they don't care.
At this age we see that R is 0,
S is 0. What is this action?
You have to quickly answer.
No, no R is 0 S is 0001 thousand store
correct so it restores whatever it had.
It had don't care so it stores
don't care up until the next edge.
00 Again stores.
Up until this edge or
becomes one is becomes 010.
What's the change?
Was the action reset correct?
So it brings whatever the previous was.
It brings it to zero up until the next edge.
The next year it is always 1S is 1,
both becomes one forbidden action.
Again, it brings the status
to don't care condition.
So you see the difference.
It only look at the ordinace at the edges.
So when it look at the change to
the input based on the two edges,
we call it a dual edge or it
works based on the both edges
from one edge to the next edge.
Anything is kept on the memory
unit and the door is locked.
However, sometimes are in the market.
They build the memory unit that
works based on only one edges,
which we call it single edge.
So both edge. Or dual edge.
Versus single edges.
So what is single edge?
Basically, the single edge
can be positive or negative.
This is the behavior of the
positive edge response.
Basically, the memory units that
works based on the single edges,
an single edges that are positive.
They look at the input when the Clock.
Transition a transit from zero to 1.
And they keep whatever they had
up until the next positive edge.
In the negative edge, they works
on the next edges of the Clock.
So basically the transition from one
to zero. They look at the input.
And indeed, well edges or both edges,
are they look at 021120.
So it depends on the type
of memory unit you buy.
Either dual edge memory in it,
or a single edge memory unit and
that single edge memory with may
be positive or negative edge.
So now we. Come to the point
that we define a memory in it,
which is the most complete memory
in it which we call it flip flop.
So you may hear about this name a lot
before this lecture so Flip Flop is a latch.
That only look at the input on a single edge.
So a single edge enabled
large is called Flip Flop.
We haven't built it yet,
but imagine that we have a
latch that works like that.
That only opens up look at the
input at a very quick moment.
When the Clock goes from zero to 1.
Or from 1 to 0.
And if you want to show the flip flops,
there is no big difference in the
behavior or in the block diagram.
The only difference is this instead of the
E we have Clock and we have this triangle.
This triangle shows that this
memory unit works best on the edge,
that's why it has a kind of triangle thing.
So this is the Rs flip flop,
meaning that it's a memory unit that works
based on the positive edges of the Clock.
This is the flip flop,
meaning that it works based on
the positive edges of the Clock.
anti JK
If you look at the characteristic
tables the same exactly the same,
the only difference is the
way they changes this state,
but the behavior is the same.
So for the RS00,
stores for instance for the D1 sets
for the T1 compliment or for the
JCAR 01 resets the same behavior.
But the moment of change only matters.
For the latches for the positive
level for the edges, positive edges.
So this is the default whenever
we say that we have a flip flop.
This is the default we have in mind.
If Flip Flop is a positive edge.
Large meaning that they only opens
to the look at the input from the
zero to one transition of the Clock.
And a single edge positive.
And this is the exact.
Signal of R&S and Clock
for the previous example.
But this time assuming that we
have the memory unit that works
better on the positive edges.
So basically only look at the input
from transition from zero to 1.
021 021 and at this moment it looks at
the R&S and changes the state accordingly.
So here or is 0, S is 1, it sets,
so it sets to one up until the next positive
edge because it's a single edge flip flop.
At this moment all is 1. As is 0.
As you can see here very quick moment.
It drops to zero up until the next positive
edge at the next positive edge, or is 1.
S is one goes to the don't care
up until the next positive edge.
So any change between the two
positive edges doesn't matter.
If you have a negative.
A single edge, but based on the negative
edges we have at this plot diagram.
Usually we show it by this you put
an not before the Clock symbol,
which basically shows that this memory
units works based on the negative edges.
And, uh, the same example for
the previous one becomes of for
the negative edge becomes this,
so we only look at the transition
of Clock from 1 to 0.
120120 at this moment we look at
the input and changes accordingly.
So. You see here we had zero up
until the next negative edge,
so any change to ordinas.
Doesn't have any impact up until
the first negative edge.
Or is zero as is 1?
It becomes one up until the
next negative edge and attach.
So there is another way to say.
How the memory unit works.
We call it triggering,
so you may be heard about Trigger,
so he said that either the memory
unit works based on the level
or level triggered memory unit,
or we have a edge triggered a memory
and so basically another word for
this behavior is called trigger.
So. The flip flops workspace on the
edge so that as a result we can
call it edge triggered memory unit,
but before voltage we had latches,
there were level triggered memory units.
And as we said, we have a
positive trigger flip flops and
negative triggered flip flops.
And all this in the exam or in the
diagrams look at the disassembled if
you can see and not before the Clock.
It means that this memory in it
works based on the negative edges.
So on the negative edges it
triggers or it accept the changes.
So we haven't discussed how we
build a flip flop. We only explain
the behavior of their flip flops.
But how we can we build a flip flop?
We could build the latches by
adding a gate enable input,
but how can we build a flip
flop by using the latches?
So basically in the left
side we have a large.
Either RSJTIRSTD or JK latch,
and we want to build.
A flip flop we want to act like
a edge triggered flip flop.
So the idea is this.
This part is kind of important,
so I need your full attention.
So before I start very similar to our
traditions or send me some feedback
or any questions you have so far.
Thank you Nick. Thank you
Thank you, Christopher Tatiana.
Phillip Cameron.
so great.
So since everybody has the focus.
So the idea is this,
you may ask from where I got this idea, but.
It is similar to the Tryon error
we had in the web at the first,
we wanted to build the memory in it.
So the idea is this, if I hear.
2 letters in a way that if I open the
door of the first large at the same time
I'm closing the door of the second latch.
So that's it's kind of a, uh.
If you can imagine that it's
kind of a weird structure.
So imagine you have two rooms.
Such that if you open the door
of one room at the same time,
you're closing the door of another room.
Or vice versa.
So you can think about such
a device or such a.
I mean place.
The same is exactly for building a flip flop.
Why because?
It creates a moment instead of having
a period of time longer period of time,
it kills it, just quick moment for us.
So the idea is that if I have a
latch that works best based on the,
whenever the Enable is 0,
so we already said that if enable
is zero and the memory and will
look at the input at that time we
call it active low memory units or
active low latches and we show it by
the not symbol before they enable.
And if you have another large
that works based on whenever the
E becomes one or active high.
A large both are larger,
so they work based on the levels,
but the first one levels that zero,
the second one levels that one.
And now if I attach.
The Clock. To both latches.
So the Clock is like this.
The pulse this is just a single pulse.
So 0101 and etc.
So what happens when I attach a
single Clock to these two latches?
As you can see, both actually
works in the complements way.
At this moment, when the Clock is 0.
The whole Clock is 0,
the first latch, the door is open.
Because this works based on the active law.
So zero goes.
Here becomes one and it opens the door.
However, zero goes here enable for the 2nd,
that is 0. So here enable is 0.
Here it becomes 0.
After this becomes one.
This is open,
but the second one is closed.
In the complements way,
when the Clock becomes one,
the first latch is closed,
but the second latch is open.
So you see here that opening the first
large closes the second one, an opening.
The first latch closes the second
one open the sorry closed the first
large close open the second one.
And in the transition between the 01,
this is the moment we want just a
quick moment in this transition.
What happens is that.
This in the in the same time that
we are closing the first large,
we are opening the second large.
What it means is that.
Basically, the second large
only accept the change when the
first flash becomes stable.
So this gonna be the final state.
And when it changes that
the first latch is stable.
And the first latches kind of accepting
any change from the outside world.
As long as the input changes,
the first last may be changed,
but it only transferred the information
to the second large if it becomes stable.
When it becomes stable.
When the door is closed.
So. The idea is this.
If. I. Put the first lodge in the
front line and I asked the first
slash to accept the input from
outside world, whatever X is.
And as long as exchange is
the first large gonna change.
However, when when the Clock is 0.
When we decide to close the door
of the first large, we say that OK,
we want to make this first large stable.
So we closed the door.
We make the first large stable and
when it is stable we transfer the
stable state to the second language.
And the second that is the one that is
always behind the front line and only
accept the final state, that is stable.
And this happens at this moment.
So we closed the door of the first latch
and then we received this stable status
of the first letter is second language.
And this is the way we built a flip flop.
So as you can see here, the second
latch only accepts the input.
From the first launch.
As long as the Clock is 0, the first
latch accept whatever changes to the X.
However, when it goes to the middle.
It tries to close the door or stabilize
its internal estate at the same time.
The second latch is also closed the door and
doesn't accept because it's not stable yet.
And then finally, when did first latches
closed and finalize the internal state?
That the result gonna go to the second large.
So you may wonder what happens if it drops.
To the next pulse.
You can try it at home that what?
Happens if the edge drops.
So here they fill the second largest enable.
When it goes to 0.
Again, this becomes enabled and this
becomes disabled or closed the door
and it keeps the previous state.
So by just.
Pairing an active low and active highlights,
we can create a moment.
At that moment we can see the
final change to this second latch.
So this structure is called
master slave latches and as a
whole they work as a flip flop.
The way I built was based
on the deathmatches,
so we have a D master,
the slave.
The master is the frontline and the
DS lab is the behind the front line
and only keeps the final states.
And this is the input from the
outside world and we can put
them together as a block diagram
and we call it the flip flop.
So inside we have two flip flop
that works with based on the level.
One of them is active low.
One of them is active high,
but both together hand in hand.
Workspace on the behavior of
the flip flop as a result will
change the enable input too.
Positive logic, positive edges.
So. The main output of this whole unit
is the main output of the slave latch.
Which is the 2nd that works
with this on the active heart.
And the input goes to the first latch.
The front line large.
So be careful about that.
So you may wonder how you
can build T flip flop.
Be careful you cannot simply go with this.
You can not simply say that I can
put 2T latches telat that works with
on the active loyalty lies active
high and the Masters safety latches
is not always the same as we build
for the deal at the Flip flop.
Work on a try to try at home.
Try to build a T flip flop using
the T latches.
Also Rs flip flop using the
Rs latches and Jake off Flip
flop using the JCAR flip flops.
So you can search or you can
work in practice at home.
How you can build a flip
flop version of the latches.
Now, so let's see. We have questions.
How is the large know if others table?
Oh, you mean this back here?
But The thing is that that's that's the
point that you know, that's the point.
The second large knows that the first
latches is stable because it is open.
So you see the structure as I said,
imagine you have two rooms
and the door works like this.
If you open the door.
It closes the door.
It opens the one room and closes the first.
The other room.
So the second large knows that the
first latch is stable because it's
open when the second latches open,
we know that the first latches closed.
So because it's open,
it knows that the first batch is stable.
However, whenever the reverse happens,
this one. At this moment,
the second largest closed.
And it knows that the first latch is open.
So as a result, it knows that
the first latch is not stable,
so it doesn't accept any
input from the first left.
That's why it's closed and it
keeps the previous state it had.
Based on its own.
Status if the second latches open,
it means that the previous at the
front line lat is closed and is
this table so it accepts the input.
If the second largest closed,
it means that the the the
other lattices open,
so the other land is not a stable yet,
so we don't accept the input.
Yeah.
It's hard to imagine so at once I
tried to build a Princess a house.
With two rooms. That has only one door,
and that door acts like that so.
Uh. There is a famous painter that
paints some, I mean. Kind of up.
Elusive images, I mean paintings that
you cannot think of that in a reality.
But imagine I don't know how to picture that.
So imagine you have one room room one and
room 2 but these rooms has only one door.
Uh oh, in the buildings you have
such a thing, you see when you go
to some I mean shopping centers,
you have a door such as like this.
That people go inside.
It's kind of hot.
How do you call these doors?
It's kind of rolling doors,
something like that.
So you go inside and then you.
Force in in One Direction when it,
as long as it's opening this way
and you are trying to close it,
you are opening the other side.
It's kind of like that.
So imagine you have a building.
Like this?
That has a door like this.
When you open this area.
Oh, this is better if you have one
here room to hear and you have
this door when you open this role.
You're also opening this room.
I don't know how to explain that that's hard.
Yep. Anyways. Oh so now we
have our ideal memory in it.
So flip flops are ideal memory in
it that works based on the edges.
So edge triggered a memory in
it's by default we whenever we say
Flip flop we mean a memory that
works based on the positive edge.
This is the Clock and this
is the main output queue.
So now let's build larger memory units.
So. By larger memory units we mean that
we want to build a sequence circuit or
a logic circuit that has memory in it.
So we already know how to build
combination logic based on the gates
and now we want to add memory units to
such circuits and not only we can do
some arithmetic or calculations on the input,
but also we are able to store
information in the memory units.
So we want to learn how to
build sequential circuits.
Very similar to the combination
of circus or combination logic.
We have two phases,
an analysis and design.
In the analysis you are given is
circuit and you have to analyze the
behavior in the design you're asked
to design A circuit and you have to
put the memory units and the gate
together to provide that functionality.
So.
Very similar to the previous design
or analysis for the combination logic.
So in summary,
all the logic circuits we said can
go to tool categories, combination,
elanne, sequential.
We know how to design and
analyze the combination circuit.
Now we want to see how can we design
and analyze a sequential circuit.
So for the combination logic,
we investigate the arithmetic units,
logical operation,
data transmission, and binary codes.
Now we are dealing with the sequential logic.
For analyze and design the sequential logic,
we can categorize them into three groups.
Those tickets that has only flip flops.
Doors has flip flops and inputs.
Those has flip flops,
inputs and outputs.
In this course I'm going to
explain these two together,
but the first one I mean first,
so I'm going to start with this
category and then if you have time,
I start explaining these two.
Otherwise next week I'm going to explain this
sequential logic design that has flip flops,
an inputs and outputs.
So the most simplest design is those
that doesn't have any input or output.
Only the flip flop.
So I explained the analyzing the sequential
circuit by an example so you can follow
the steps of this example for any analysis.
For the sequential circuits.
So assuming that you are given this circuit.
And you want to analyze this behavior.
Behavior of this circuit.
What is the functionality of this?
In the combination logic,
you had gates and or exclusive order etc.
So you can easily you have to
create the truth table and etc.
But here it's a little bit different
because you don't have gates,
you have sequential circuit memory units.
So the first an immediate question
you have to ask yourself is that.
Even before you start your analysis,
you have to say that is it
a sequential circuit or not.
So you have to think of the given circuit,
whether it's a combination circuit.
So you go with the analysis of.
I mean, you already know with the gates.
Or is it a sequential circuit?
How do I identify a sequential circuit?
If you see a circuit that
has at least one flip flop.
It's a sequential circuit,
so you have to go with today's steps.
Or if you see in a circuit that
has one at least one feedback.
Sometimes the second doesn't have any
memory in it, but it has feedbacks.
As long as you have a feedbacks.
It's a sequential circuit.
Otherwise,
if you don't,
if you don't see any feedback or
any flip flop,
it's a combination circuit and you
go with the previous analysis step.
So basically you see that the SEC
has a levels of aggregates,
process and or than etc.
And you know how to do that.
So for this example,
we know that we have free flip-flops.
How do you know that?
Because you have a block
diagram and you have it.
Positive edges for the flip flops Rs
flip flop Flip Flop and Jacob flip flop.
So you have 3 flip flops.
Also you have feedbacks so
you have one feedback here.
1 feedback here why these are feedbacks?
Because the end of the one flip flop goes
to the input of the other flip flop.
So this is a feedback,
so it's definitely a sequential circuit.
So when you identify the second as a
sequential circuit, you go with the
analysis steps of the sequential circuit.
The first step for sequential circuit is that
you have to determine the type of flip-flops.
What are the flip flops?
And then you pick a name for
them and the type of flip flops.
So based on the given circuit,
it shows that the first flip
flop on the right is a jaycar.
I pick a name a for that.
The second flip flop is a T flip flop.
I pick NB&RSC. You can pick any
other names for instance XYZ.
This step is very similar to
the combination of circuit.
Basically at that analysis you have to
pick a name for input binary variables.
Here you have to pick a name
for your flip flops.
ABC or XYZ or weather.
The second step is this.
What are the old possible state
combinations given these flip flops?
Basically, we said that any flip flop
can is able to store only one bit,
either zero or one.
So if you have a this number of flip flops.
2 to the power of the number of
flip flops or different states
that the circuit gonna have.
So again, it's very similar
to the binary variables,
so in the combination of circuit
you have binary variables.
Each pointer variables can have zero and one,
so you're going to have two to the
power of input binary variables
here instead of binary variables,
you have flip flops is flip
flop can stores around 1:00.
So 2 to the power of number of
flip flops gonna be different
in status of this whole 2nd.
So here you have 3 flip flops, each 101.
So in total you're going to have
eight different combinations.
For instance, you may have 000.
You may have 010 may have 111.
These are different combinations
for these three flip flops.
So far very similar to
the combination circuit.
The third step is again similar
to combination circuit.
You have to create the truth table.
But the truth table for sequential
circuit is called a state table.
Because it shows the
status of the flip flops,
it doesn't show the value of the input,
it shows the values inside the flip flops.
But there's a little difference here.
First of all, in the truth table
that we call it state table.
You have to create one column for
the current status of the Flip flop.
One column for the next status
of the Flip flop.
So it looks like this, so there is no input.
There is no output.
Whatever you have is the current
state of the flip flops and the
next states of the flip flops.
So the next step going to
be fill out the state table.
This truth table. So.
What would be the values
of the left side?
Do you have any idea?
Exactly different values
for the current status,
different values for a, B or C.
So you have to fill out the current status.
Different possibility for the current
status and then based on the value of
the current status you have to fill out
the right side which is the next status.
So in the left side you can assume that
if the circuit is in this State 000,
this means that if I have zero
in the C Flip Flop,
zero in the T flip flop and zero
in the Jay Cutler flow.
What happens next?
Or for instance, this moment.
You assume that if I am in this status
O in the CRS flip flop one in the T flip
flop and one in the J Coughlin flow,
what happens to the next? Time is that.
So the left side very similar
to the combination circuit.
Different possibilities of the flip flops.
The right side.
What is going to be the next status?
So this part is very important,
so so far very easy.
The number of as long as you
have a flip flower feedback,
it's a sequential circuit.
You have to be careful about
the type of flip flops you have
to pick a name for flip flops.
You have to create the state table.
The left side of the state table,
plus different possibilities
for the current status.
The right side next status.
The left side fill out the
left side is very simple,
just putting all the possibilities,
but the right side is a little bit different.
So the right side we have to see
for each sell what is going to be
the next value of that flip flop.
So the flip flop a.
Was zero.
I want to see what is going to be
the next value of the flip flop.
So this is based on the input of the
flip flop and the current status,
so the current status is 0.
And now I have to see what is
the input of the flip flop.
This is a Jacob flip flop so I
have to see what is the input
of J and what is the input of K.
So. The correct status is zero,
as you can see. The input for J.
The input for J comes from B bar.
He is zero, followed by the nuts.
Becomes one. Be careful here, it's very.
In tricky. The next input of.
The Jacob Flip flop a?
The key of the Flip Flop A comes from B.
So the main output of the BB is 0,
so the input for the K is 0.
If I have zero in the K and one in the
J for the flip flop, what happens?
What is the action here?
Anybody? Correct set. So basically in
the next Clock or in the next edge.
Because these are all positive ads, so.
These are all positive edges because
all connected to one single Clock
in the next positive edge the A.
Does said it was zero, it becomes. What?
So zero in the next in the the
first positive edge becomes one.
The other flip flops.
In the parallel changes the status.
So what are the changes
to the other flip flops?
Because all these flip flops are
working in parallel with the same Clock.
So we have to see what happens
with the B while the A was transit
was transferring from zero to
1TB also changes the status,
so we have to see what is the change.
So B. Is a T flip flop?
You have to see what is the current status,
which is zero and what is the input.
The input comes from the Rs flip
flop main input followed by the nut.
C is zero followed by the nuts becomes one.
So B was zero, the input is 1, what happens?
For the T flip flop.
What is the action when we have
one in the team Flip Flop?
What is the name of the action?
Compliment correct,
so if T is one in the input,
it complements the status.
It was zero. It becomes one.
So again. He was zero.
The input comes from this see
Flip Flop followed by the nuts.
See followed by the nuts.
It becomes one because he is 0,
not becomes one and one is the
complement action for the T flip flop.
So it complements the zero becomes one.
What happens to the C
C is currently 0.
The input for or comes from.
A.
A is 00 goes here and the
input for S comes from.
T flip flop this be flip
Flop B is 0 so as becomes 0.
So C was zero, the input are 00.
What is the action for the Rs flip flop?
Correct store so it is store 0,
so these are this tab so it was zero.
The input for R comes from
the a flip flop which is 0.
The input for S comes from the B,
which is 0. 00 is the store action.
As a result, 0 cannot be restored again.
So you have to fill out all the other rows.
One thing is that for simplicity,
usually, instead of just saying that
what is the output of the main output
of a flip flop, we can say simply,
but use the name for that flip flop.
So here for instance,
I say that the output of a flip
flop I can replace it by a.
Or I can say here I said that
the output of the B flip flop.
I can simply say that what is the beat?
So just a shorter form to show the
output of is flip flop because we
have a name for it is Flip Flop.
We can do that.
So you have to fill out all the other roles.
I you can look at this at home or
one thing happens here is this.
For this. Why this happens?
At this moment C is 0.
B is 1. A is 1.
And now we want to see what is the
next step. The next value of C. See.
The input for R comes from. Here a.
A is 1, so it becomes one.
Here the input 4S. Comes from.
BB is 1, it becomes 111 is the
forbidden action for Rs flip flop.
As a result it brings zero
to don't care condition.
Anna touch. So the main challenging
step of the analysis is fill out the
state table for the flip flop circuits.
You see that there is no input here.
There is no output.
We only have flip flops.
And the last step is that after
you form this data table,
you can draw this state transition diagram.
The idea is that for each state.
You create a node.
For each different status or
different values in your flip flops,
you created node and then you show the
transition between each status by an edge.
So here is the way.
So the first is the a flip flop
be flip flop and see Flip Flop.
So at first we were in at 0.
So if you go to the.
The state table from zero
you go to what is state.
at from zero goes to.
011 from 011 you go to where?
Back to the truth table from 011.
He go to. X oh sorry don't care 00.
Usually in the state diagram will show it by.
Forbidden estate so from 011
you go to the Forbidden City.
So basically this state transition
shows that from what values are
stored in your sequential circuit,
you move toward what next value
based on the positive. Edge.
So at any positive edge you translate
from one of these states to another
States and why these states are free
pets because we have free flip flops.
In total Harmony North we have two
to the power of three or eight.
Notes we gonna have because you have eight
different possibilities for this status.
And the last step is that you can
analyze this diagram to see what's
the problem with the circuit.
So this is optional.
Basically, you can see that. At any state.
You end up with the Forbidden State.
So if you start with this steady
go here and then you go back here,
here, here and etc.
Go to the block.
So basically it's a way to figure
out what's the problem with the
circuit and you have to fix that.
But this is optional for us. And.
We're done with today's lecture.
Uh, next, this is the recap.
So again.
The first step is that you're dealing
with a sequential circuit or combination.
If you have a sequential circuit,
you have to determine what are
the flip flops.
Pick a name for them.
And then you have to determine
this state combination.
So basically 2 to the power of number
of flip flops form this state table.
Each color, one column for the
current status of the Flip Flop,
one column for the next status.
And then you have to fill out the.
State table.
And finally.
You have to form the state
transition diagram and the last
step is analyze the different paths
between the States and find the.
Problem with this circuit.
Next lecture I'm going to explain.
The design. If you're asked
to design A some circuit,
we have to determine that we
need a memory unit or not.
If we need the memory unit,
we have to follow a designer step,
which is kind of different from the
design of the combination circuit.
So I'm done with today's lecture
and ready to take your question.
Any questions?
You're welcome
It's a little bit, uh.
You can see that there is a huge
similarity within this analysis and
the combination circuit analysis,
but you have to be careful
that here we have flip flops.
You don't have binary variables in the input.
You too Nick. So another thing is
that here we don't have an output,
so we don't have to minimize
a Boolean function or etc.
So we don't write SOP or POS.
Here we just want to know
what is the next step.
Instead we have this state transition.
Have a great day guys are and
I'm going to be in the office.
If you have any questions,
I'm happy to take your question there.
Thank you, Philip, and uh, goodbye,
more time to do this kind of question.
Yes, we need a lot of practice.
Yes, yeah. And it's kind of different,
so you have to be careful about
the actions of the flip flops.
Yeah, and one thing I highly
suggest you to do practice.
These are not learned by just
memorizing what it does.
You have to do it on paper.
You have to analyze it yourself, yeah?
Yeah. It's kind of in math problem,
so you cannot memorize the formula
without solving some problem.
Here is the same you have to solve
and analyze an actual circuit, yeah?
OK.
So welcome Tatiana and thank
you everyone for your attendance.
OK.
Have to stop.